Last Fall I conducted a side project for a TD bank located in Toronto.  The bank had a central folder where they stored various customer requests, all containing banking information.  Employees would conduct certain jobs for customers and would later call the IT department to access these files containing information about the job. The problem was that the central folder has hundreds of subfolders, where the name served no meaning (the name of one of the folders is "cbaw.resul.csca.docs0a50cfce589a4fa0a27048a4018847e8.") and each of the folders all had the same 5 files with the exact same names.  The file the employee wants is the one titled "output.pdf" which holds the various banking information, the file is attached in the repository, (I was given dummy files that contain fake addresses and information to maintain confidentially).    

Besides the PDF, there is a file called “FORMS_CTRLFUNC_RPT.DAT” (also attached in the repository) which is a text file containing a summary of the contents in the PDF.  This includes the unique form ID number associated with each job request, the creation date of the form, the number of pages, etc.  Whenever an employee would call the IT department all they would provide them with is the form ID number.  So, the IT employee has to manually go and search for the PDF with the specific form ID number in the hundreds of possible folders.  Obviously, this is an impossible job and needed correcting.  

I created a program that used a combination of scripting in Unix and Java to access the PDF file efficiently and easily.  All the IT worker has to do is run the script with 2 arguments.  The first argument is the central folder in which they want to search for the PDF file, and the second argument is the unique form ID number of the job request they are searching for.  The script which prompts the java program allows the program to search each summary file in the hundreds of subfolders of the central folder.  Each summary file is passed into the java program and the program checks if the given form ID number matches with the form ID number written in the summary file.  This is done using a combination of the StringTokenizer and BufferedReader class.   If the form ID number is found in one of the summary files, the program returns the folder in which the summary file is located.  This is because the PDF file storing the wanted banking information is stored in the same folder as well.  Now all the IT department has to do is copy that folder name, search for it in finder/file explorer, and retrieve the PDF file to send to the employee who asked for it.  The script and java program are both attached in the repository, with comments to explain the entire process.

